AWS DAY1

same as linux aws . creating the aws free tire account and exploring ec2

DAY2 EC2+ EC2 +EBS +EBS snapshots
Was has two IP's one is public  for public people and in house  access  it with private IP.
Touch 
Whom
Sudo su -    to work as root use
Login through either ssh or web browser to connect ec2 instance.

Consider we have 2 server in two different regions,
 Can we add extra storage to server. Yes it is called volume /block volume. Like how we add pen drive /external harddsik to computer smilarly.
When we create the ec2 instance  we will have  some v=block volume (eg:8GB)
If we need to add any extra to it go to elastic block store in the aws UI

In terminal post ssh login 
Command -lsblk
Now we have to most (add) the ebs(elastic block store) to our ec2.
Ebs tp be attached to be created in the same availability zone of ec2 server.

Steps:

Volume settings:
Type -gps sp3
Gib -take 1 /2 for now the more he more bill
Availity zone - same zone as server 

Tags-  give a name like easy to attach -- us-east1-a in class.

To attach this volume to any instance. Right click on volume -- attach - add the instance details. Select the instance you want to add , in device name add /dev/sdf or any which is available. Now vol1 will be changed status to in -use

Now if we to lsblk, we can see the attached volume. But in order to use it we have to mount it .
Use df -H (to see the file ssystem)and you cannot see this details in there without mounting(attaching).
We need to create file system structure to the extra 1gb then we can use it.
Steps:

Mkfs -t ext4 /dev/nvme1n1. (Make filesystem ext4 is a file system type -t type  /dev/nve1n1 is volume name)
Mkdir madhu.
Mount dev/nvme1n1 madhu.  -- it will mount the voulme(ebs) to madhu folder
Now if we do df -Th it will be showed in file type and now we can use it through madhu.


Cd madhu
Touch chair Venky balayya etc files (consider we added 1 gn files will be stored to 1gb)

Now server2 which is in another zone 
Then we can detach it from server1 here by right clicking on volume and attach to server2 or we can do one more,
Take the backup of voulem1 which is called snapshot and attach it it server2. Now both will have the same .
Bought -- if I made changes n volume 1 after backup , will it reflect automatically in snapshot or I need to take the fish backup if something change in v1 and to be reflected to v2. 

