AWS free tier account creation
validity - 6 mmonths- or 200$
anything with cpu RAM and storage is server. 
go to gogle search grate aws free tier and login once creted.
created a free account needed is a gmailid and fredit cad account to verify.
always use n.vergina as the region and do the work post login.
EC2-- Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud
Amazon EC2 is a core web service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that allows you to rent virtual computers—known as instances—to run your own computer applications.
Go to EC2->launch instance->give linux server as name - choose aws linux-> instance type t3.micro as it is free eligible
create new key-pair
two keys created-- public key injects in awsprivate key downloads to laptop.leave the other settings as is.
then in the network settings- we need to create firewall-? firewall is to allow whoom at which port etc.. linke securing the virtual machine
443 should be open to connect to https  protical sites
port is entry and exit points to server.

firewall ->create new security group give a name ,description.
as currently our is a practice type->all traffic and source type- anywhere choose it. in reality we wil choose certails porta and certain types and etc as per requirement.
group rule  we can add as many as we can and  we can either edit or create new one. click launch instance.

in left panel ->go to instance-> right click on server ->click connect.now it shows through browser or ssh.
it has 2 options though web and sshif web is used we can use there only
If clicked ssh ->it asks for key 
in laptop go to gi
open the git bash in the folder where .pem key of aws is stored.
provide the commands provided in the aws . 
now we are connected to the ec2 through laptop. here the public key(aws one) and private key(downloaded in pc) did handshake and logged in to the server we created.
in gitbash type whoami
gives ec2-user name 
linux server ultimate user is root user
in console  --sudo su
it changes the user to root user.
hostnamectl set-hostname <desired hostname>
hotname -I   -- to check ip
uname   -- to check osname
uname -a   --- to check all config 
clear

Basic Linux commands
whoami --   ec2 server after connecting server
sudo su -- switch to root user
pwd=present working directory path
view
ls
ll
ls -lart
ls-lrth

touch f1 g2 g3 create file touch
mkdir dir1 dir2
rm -rf f1 f2 --delete file
rm -rf dir1 -- deleted folder
rm -rf * -- to delte all -- never use
cat f1 -- see the content in f1
to go inside folder cd foldername/folderpath
to come one step outside folder (immediate parent)cd ..







